All right, so in this
particular video, I have a story
for you now, Piyush.
But we were here
to understand authentication.
Why there is a story.
You know what happens?
I am a kind of person
who don't, likes to understand
things by just coding, right?
We should understand
what we are coding.
The, what is the logic behind it?
What is it, how that
idea was invented.
Okay?
Because coding is the simplest
thing and at the end
thing that we have to do.
So let's understand
the authentication.
Now there was one more story
that I have just shadcn
with you that was XYZ College.
So this particular thing, I think
this particular story or this
particular visual representation
helped you in understanding what
authentication and authorization is.
Now let's understand authentication.
Little bit in deep and some
challenges that might occur.
Okay?
Now see there, this is
a story of a parking lot.
So let's say that this
particular area, this particular
is a parking lot.
So what is a parking lot?
Parking lot is an empty big space
where a lot of a lot of vehicles
can come and park themselves.
Right.
Now technically this parking lot is
let's say a paid service, okay.
Or a private owned service
by some kind of mall.
And you don't want that anyone can
come and park in this parking lot.
So what will you do?
You will basically hire
a security guard.
So, so let's say that this
is the gate and this
is your security guard.
Or I can say the valet parking.
So you have, basically you
have a security guard here.
So if anyone wants to park a car,
no one has access to here, right?
What you have to do is let's say
this is the person with his car.
So let me just try
to draw a very basic car.
So a green color car.
I don't know why I came
up with green color.
But I think yeah, this is okay.
Okay, so one more thing
I'll just try to do.
So let's say that this is your car.
Okay?
I didn't know that.
I am such a good artist, but yeah.
Now let's say this is a car, okay?
And this is the owner of the car.
Now this owner of the car wants
to park his car in this parking lot.
So what will happen is he will come
to the security
guard and he will say that, hey,
can you please park my car?
Security guard will say that,
okay, there is a space available.
I'll park your car.
So let's say that the number of this
particular car, okay, let's give
it a number, was, let's say
something like, you know, X, X1, Y
so this was the number of the car.
So what this particular
guy will do is he will park his car.
Okay?
So his car is parked.
Now, in return, he needs some
kind of receipt, right?
He needs some kind of token, right,
that, hey, you parked my car.
But when I will come back, how
can I tell you which was my car?
Because if we just say him
tell me your number, he might
say any other number.
Imagine coming in Honda City
and going back in Mercedes.
That's not a right thing, right?
So what this security
guard can do is security guard can
basically give him a number.
So let's say security guard
said, hey, here is your token.
Basically a token.
Let's say a number is written even.
Okay, I'm just taking
a random example of E1.
So what now this, this
particular person can do is.
But this particular person
can maintain a diary.
Okay, typical.
How happens he can maintain a diary.
Okay, so let's say this is the diary.
And in this diary he can
make an entry that E1 token
belongs to XX1Y car.
Okay?
Now this person can go roam around,
you know, he can go to shopping,
he can basically enjoy himself.
And when he comes back, what happens?
He has to give his token back.
That, hey, here is my token,
E1 that you gave me.
Can you give me my car?
And then security guard will
say, okay, let me check.
He will open his diary.
He will see E1 was this car.
So he will, he will take
the token back, give him his car,
and delete his entry.
Is this flow clear?
Typically how this basically
happens in the real world.
Also, whenever you go, you give
your car, you get a, token
which uniquely identifies your car.
Some kind of number you get, right?
So let's say this is one.
Let's say more users are coming.
Okay, so.
So one more user is there.
One more user is there.
So what is happening is you are
getting different, different tokens.
So everyone is getting a token.
So let's say E3, E4.
And now we have a lot
of cars in the parking lot.
So these are the cars parked.
And let me just, quickly rename
their, you know, numbers.
So let's say this is E2,
this is, you know, this is
the three three number.
And this car has a number of four.
Okay, now what happens?
You have four entries in your,
in your book, in your,
diary, whatever you are maintaining.
So E2 is there, right?
Which is having
a number, let's say E2Y.
Then you have so on.
So you got the point.
Now tell me just one thing.
I just want to understand from you,
okay, how open minded you are.
Do you see any problem here
with this approach?
Everything is working fine.
Everything is secure, right?
There is no problem at all.
Everything is secure.
We are doing every kind of check.
We are maintaining a diary,
and our security guard is
working really nice, okay?
He is a very hardworking man.
But what problem could come here?
Can you think of a problem here?
Okay, now let me come back
with the problem.
Number one.
What happens if there
is a sale in the mall?
Let's say there's a lot of rush,
a lot of people came in.
You know, on a typical day, there
were just 30, 40, users or members
or, you know, users, coming in.
But some day 200 came in.
So what will happen?
This security guard will
be overwhelmed because
now he has to do 200.
Now, because you just had one
security guard, what you have
to do is he has to do one by one.
Number one, he's tired, okay?
He is tired.
That means he can basically,
you know, get a heart attack
or he can collapse, right?
So technically, there's a lot
of stress on one person.
Secondly, he has to do one by one.
So that means if someday 200
people came in, they have
to wait in a long queue because
you only had one resource.
See, there is a thing that
your parking lot can
support 200 cars, okay?
That is fine.
You have enough space.
But because you just had one
security guard, now he, now there is
a long queue of people, which
is not a good experience, right?
Because he is doing one
by one, one by one.
And so how can you
solve this problem?
You will say, push.
It's very simple.
What I can do is I can basically
have three security guards.
You will say that because
too many people are coming.
So what I will do is
I'll make three lines.
Okay, so one, two, and one more.
Security guard.
I said, very good.
This is a good optimization.
Now you have divided the traffic
into three lines.
And what is happening is you
are basically processing
three cars concurrently, correct?
Parallelly, I would say.
Parallelly, you are
processing three cars, okay?
So now your processing
speed is faster.
But now there is a problem
because there is only one diary.
Because there is only one diary.
When this person is writing
to this diary, can this person
also write to the diary?
No.
Right?
Because there is only one diary.
So technically, what happened?
Even if you have three security
guards, or even if you have four
security guards, the major problem
still remains that at a time
you can only process one car.
Because if this Person is busy
entering some entry here.
These three are waiting for
the notebook to get freedom, right?
So still you are only processing
one notebook at a time.
The only thing is
that the stress per.
What do you say?
That the per security
guard is reduced.
But still the line is very long.
So you will say, okay, no problem.
To solve this particular problem,
let's have four diaries.
No.
Hey, you have your own
independent diary.
You have your own independent diary.
And you also have your
own independent diary.
Now there is no one shadcn diary.
I said okay, which is very nice.
Right?
Now they are not dependent
on each other.
So what happens is he
can keep on entering.
So this particular guy can keep
on entering stuff here.
This particular can keep
This here, and this here.
Now you have solved all
the problems very nicely.
I mean, you are processing
four cars parallelly,
which is like four times.
And no one is dependent
on each other, which is nice.
Now here comes a problem.
Let's say this person, when came for
parking, he gave to this guy, okay?
So that means the entry for
E2 is in this particular diary.
Now what happens when he
comes back to take his car?
He accidentally comes here
to this guy, he will say,
hey, My token is E2.
Can you give me my car?
Is there any E2 entry
in this particular diary?
No, right?
Because that.
That entry is here.
So technically this person
will say, sorry, bro, I
don't know who are you.
I don't have any entry for E2.
So I cannot process your request.
I cannot validate whether
your car, which is your car.
So that means this guy
has to remember that.
Hey, when you came for parking,
you have given to this security
guard, security guard number.
Let's say four.
So when taking back the car,
you have to come to four.
You cannot go to E1, you cannot go
to security guard one, two or three.
You have to come back to the same
person, which is a problem, right?
He has to remember something.
And tell me just one thing,
what happens?
Okay, if everyone parked their car
with person four,
now these three are sitting idle.
Because everyone parked
their car to number four.
While taking back, also
they have to come to four.
So that means four is always
under stress, right?
For some reasons, 1,
2 and 3 are busy.
Plus people have to remember that.
Hey, if I have given my car
to person number four, I have
to take back from him.
So this is a big problem, right?
You're trying to understand
the problem, right?
See, we are not talking
about authentication.
We are not talking
about authorization.
I'm just telling you a story.
Everything will
eventually make sense.
Now, how will you solve
this particular problem?
So, problem came that when you
distributed their diaries, okay?
When you distribute their diaries,
now you have to remember which
person is having which thing.
So this is basically what happened.
What I'm trying to tell you is
that initially, when you just
had one security guard, okay?
Let's note down our observations.
When you had one security
guard, okay, security guard, or
I could say the park person.
You had only one diary, okay?
Only one diary.
And what you were doing is you were
basically giving them tokens.
You were giving them tokens
and everything was good.
The pros were okay.
The pros were number one because
there was only one security guard.
No need to remember.
Okay?
Which guard parked your car?
Which is nice.
You can just come back, okay?
Secondly, the problem was,
secondly, the cons, okay?
Con was, okay?
The problem was that there was only.
Only one guard, okay?
So speed was very slow.
So speed was a problem.
Speed was slow, okay?
Plus a lot of stress.
Only on one person.
Only on one person, okay?
And, so, yeah, this.
This was basically what was happening
in the first scenario, right?
Nice.
Then to solve the cons
of this particular thing, what it
did do, you basically had the.
Another architect that, hey,
I will have four security guards
but only one diary, okay?
So the pro was, okay,
what did you solve?
You basically solved
this problem, okay?
You solved this particular problem.
So I'll just say, hey,
this particular approach solved
this particular problem.
A lot of stress, okay?
But still, there was one con.
What?
That at a, given.
At a, given time, only one
person has access to diary.
So which basically
makes it still slow.
Got it.
Now, because, if one person is
writing to a diary, the all
others cannot write to it.
Okay?
This was your approach too.
See, this was your approach.
One, you got the problem.
Okay?
So you solved it, but you
got another problem.
So to solve this particular
problem, what did you do?
You basically said, okay,
I'll just do one thing.
Four security guards.
That means four diaries
must be there, okay?
That means four diaries.
Everyone has their, independent IDs.
Now, if I talk about the pros
of this thing, what did you solve?
You basically solved this
particular problem.
You solved this particular
problem, which is nice.
See, at every step, you are solving
one problem at a time, right?
So solved this particular problem
that at a given point of time,
only one person has the access.
But now you introduce one more con.
Now you introduce one more con.
What was the con?
The con was that hey, the you
know, the Parkers, or I can say
the customers have to remember,
have to remember which was
the guard while parking, okay?
Because you have to go
to the same person in which your
diary was maintained, right?
In which, in which your car's
diary is maintained or in which
diary or cars entries maintain.
You have to go to the same person.
Because if you go to some
other person in his diary, there
is no entry for your car.
So that's a problem.
Now technically, if you see
about authentication, what we
are going to do is now we are
going to first implement this
kind of authentication.
One server, one state, okay?
Diaries basically state.
And we are going to end
up in this problem.
Then we are going to solve
this problem and I'll show
you the another problem.
Then I'll going to say that hey, how
horizontally scaling is a problem.
But in this particular video I
just wanted you to visualize
what is happening as per your life.
Okay?
So in the next video, let's go ahead
and code this stuff,
code this stuff and code this
stuff and then finally solve all
the problems in just one go.
Okay?
So that is the thing.
So I hope that you have understood
the story and the problem behind it.
Now how to relate it
with the authentication.
That's my problem that we are going
to see in the next video.